494 F.2d 414

Jack E. MILLER et al., Appellants,

v.

CENTRAL CHINCHILLA GROUP, INC., (a/k/a The Central Chinchilla Group,
Inc., The Central Chinchilla Group of America, Inc., Central Chinchilla
Groups of America, Inc., The Central Chinchilla Guild of America, Inc.,
Central Chinchilla Guild of America, Inc., and Central Chinchilla
Group) (Hereinafter Referred to as Central Chinchilla Group, Inc.),
et al., Appellees.

No. 73-1731.

United States Court of Appeals, Eighth Circuit.

Submitted Jan. 18, 1974.

Decided March 28, 1974.

James E. Shipman, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, for appellants.

Michael P. Donohue, Robert E. Konchar, Mayer & Bergman, Cedar Rapids,
Iowa, for appellees.

Before MATTHES, Senior Circuit Judge, HEANEY, Circuit Judge, and SMITH,
Senior District Judge.[Note *]

HEANEY, Circuit Judge.

The sole issue on this appeal is whether the District Court erred
in holding that certain contracts for sale of chinchillas were
not investment contracts subject to the Securities Act of 1933,
15 U.S.C. 77a et seq., and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
15 U.S.C. 78a, et seq.

The plaintiffs initiated a class action in the Southern District of
Iowa against the chinchilla corporations and individual defendants
in March of 1971.  The plaintiffs complained that because of material
misrepresentations and omissions, they were persuaded to enter into
contracts[Note 1] with the chinchilla corporations under which those firms
sold chinchillas to the plaintiffs at prices many times in excess
of their true market value.  The plaintiffs agreed to raise and breed
these chinchillas in accordance with the corporations' directions.  The
chinchilla corporations agreed to repurchase the offspring for $100.00
per pair.  The plaintiffs maintain, in part, that they were misinformed
by the defendants that it was a simple task to raise chinchillas
and that the venture would be highly profitable.  They assert that in
reality, chinchillas are difficult to raise and have a high mortality
rate.  More importantly, they contend that the market for chinchillas
is such that the venture could return the promised profits only if
the defendants repurchased the offspring at the $100.00 price and,
in turn, resold them to other prospective chinchilla raisers at an
inflated price.  Thus, they assert, in essence, that the defendants
were operating a pyramiding scheme under which profits could be made
by the plaintiffs only if the defendants were successful in encouraging
new victims to buy into the scheme.

The plaintiffs claimed that these contracts for the sale of chinchillas
were investment contracts[Note 2] and as such were sold in violation of the
registration and antifraud provisions of the Securities Act of 19333
and 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,4 Rule 10b-55 and
common law.

In an amendment to the complaint filed in May of 1973, the plaintiffs
added the Mills County State Bank as a defendant.  The plaintiffs
asserted that the Bank was acting in concert with the defendants to
defraud them and that it aided and abetted in the violations of the
securities laws.

The Bank filed a motion to dismiss asserting that the plaintiffs had
failed to state a claim upon which relief could be granted because the
contract for the sale of chinchilla animals and a promise to purchase
their offspring is not a security under the provisions of either the
1933 of 1934 acts.  Other motions not here relevant were also filed.

The District Court treated the Bank's motion to dismiss as a motion
for summary judgment. It held that the contracts in question were
not investment contracts because they were 'clearly not passive
investment interests.'  It concluded that summary judgment for the
defendants was appropriate.

> since the sole basis for the Court's exercise of subject matter
> jurisdiction over these securities law violations are 15 U.S.C. 77v,
> 78aa, both of which are premised upon the existence of securities and
> which are thus inapplicable since no security is herein involved.

The court reasoned that the plaintiffs' efforts in raising the
chinchillas were so important to the success or failure of the venture
that characterization of the contracts as investment contracts would
be improper under the Supreme Court's definition of that term in
Securities & Exch. Com. v. Howey Co., 328 U.S. 293, 298-301, 66
S. Ct. 1100, 90 L. Ed. 1244 (1946).  The court declined to consider
the common law claims as they were premised on pendent jurisdiction
and the court had found it did not have subject matter jurisdiction
over the federal claims.

We consider the fundamental question before us---whether the contracts
were investment contracts and hence securities subject to the federal
securities laws---in the context of a dismissal for lack of subject
matter jurisdiction.  See, 10 Wright & Miller, Federal Practice and
Procedure 2713, at 402-406 (1973).

The starting point in this determination is the Supreme Court's
definition in Howey:

> An investment contract for purposes of the Securities Act means
> a contract, transaction or scheme whereby a person invests his money
> in a common enterprise and is led to expect profits solely from the
> efforts of the promoter or a third party, it being immaterial whether
> the shares in the enterprise are evidenced by formal certificates or by
> nominal interests in the physical assets employed in the enterprise.

Id., 328 U.S. at 298-299, 66 S.Ct. at 1103.

The Ninth Circuit recently held that the word 'solely' should not
be read as a strict or literal limitation on the definition of an
investment contract.  Securities & Exchange Com'n v. Glenn W. Turner
Ent., Inc., 474 F.2d 476 (9th Cir.), cert. denied, 414 U.S. 821,
94 S. Ct. 117, 38 L. Ed. 2d 53 (1973).  It stated:

> In light of the remedial nature of the legislation, the statutory
> policy of affording broad protection to the public, and the Supreme
> Court's admonitions that the definition of Securities should be a
> flexible one, the word 'solely' should not be read as a strict or
> literal limitation on the definition of an investment contract, but
> rather must be construed realistically, so as to include within the
> definition those schemes which involve in substance, if not form,
> securities.
>
> Thus the fact that the investors here were required to exert some
> efforts if a return were to be achieved should not automatically
> preclude a finding that the Plan or Adventure is an investment
> contract. * * * Rather we adopt a more realistic test, whether the
> efforts made by those other than the investor are the undeniably
> significant ones, those essential managerial efforts which affect the
> failure or success of the enterprise.

Id. at 482.

We are convinced that the definition of investment contract in Turner
is consistent with congressional intent and that it does not represent
an impermissible departure from the Supreme Court's holding in
Howey.[Note 6]

The District Court recognized the teachings of Turner but was
apparently convinced that the plaintiffs' efforts were so substantial
that even under the Turner test the chinchilla contracts were not
investment contracts.

We have reviewed the record[Note 7] in the light of the principle that
all doubts on jurisdictional points must be resolved in favor of a
plenary trial rather than dismissal at the pretrial stage.  See, Zunamon
v. Brown, 418 F.2d 883, 886 (8th Cir. 1969).  We are convinced from this
review that it was inappropriate for the District Court to have
concluded at the pretrial stage that the contracts were not investment
contracts.

The record shows that the plaintiffs invested money in a common
enterprise with the expectation that they would profit if the defendants
secured additional investors.[Note 8] It also shows that the plaintiffs
would not profit from the venture unless they exerted efforts in raising
the chinchillas.  But this fact does not preclude the conclusion that
they had entered into investment contracts because the plaintiffs have
alleged: (1) that the defendants persuaded them to invest by
representing that the efforts required of them would be very minimal;
and (2) that if they did diligently exert themselves, they still would
not gain the promised profits because those profits could be achieved
under the scheme only if the defendants secured additional investors at
the inflated prices.  If these allegations are true, and we must so
assume here, the defendants by their own actions have admitted that the
plaintiffs' contributions to the scheme were nominal, and what the
plaintiffs really purchased was the defendants' skill at persuading
others to become chinchilla raisers.

In determining whether the plaintiffs' contributions were nominal or
significant, the issue is not what efforts, in fact, were required of
them.  Rather, it is what efforts the plaintiffs were reasonably led to
believe were required of them at the time they entered into the
contracts.  See, Securities & Exch. Comm. v. Joiner Leasing Corp., 320
U.S. 344, 353, 64 S. Ct. 120, 124, 88 L. Ed. 88 (1943), where the Court,
in finding an investment contract subject to the Securities Act of 1933,
stated:

> In the enforcement of an act such as this it is not inappropriate that
> the promoters' offering be judged as being what they were represented
> to be.

Viewed in this context, it becomes apparent that the plaintiffs'
efforts in raising the chinchillas are really of no more significance
to the venture's ultimate success than were the efforts of the investors
in Turner.  There, the investor to profit had to contribute three
things: 'his money, his effort to find prospects and bring them to the
meetings, and whatever it costs him to create an illusion of his own
affluence.'  Securities & Exchange Com'n v. Glenn W. Turner Ent., Inc.,
supra, 474 F.2d at 482.  Here, the investors had to contribute two
things: his money and his efforts in raising the chinchillas.  The
latter contribution is alleged to have been represented as being
minimal.  In both cases, the investor's profit was dependent upon the
defendants' efforts to persuade additional persons to invest in the
enterprise.

The effort to persuade others to invest was held to be the 'undeniably
significant' one in Turner, and we are convinced on the record before us
that it was the significant one here.  If it develops at a later stage
in the litigation that the plaintiffs' allegations are not supported by
the evidence, the District Court can so find.  But, we have no
alternative now but to reverse and remand for further proceedings
consistent with this opinion.

Reversed and remanded.

* TALBOT SMITH, Senior District Judge, Eastern District of Michigan,
sitting by designation

Note 1:  The contracts read as follows:

		CENTRAL CHINCHILLA GROUP, INC. AGREES:

		1.	To buy all descendants of the chinchillas purchased from Central
		Chinchilla Group, Inc., on date of ---------------

		(Said descendants shall be in pairs ... a pair being one male and one
		female, or two females.)

		2 To pay the sum of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per pair for said
		offspring.

		PREFERRED PRODUCER AGREES:

    1. That all offspring sold to Central Chinchilla Group, Inc., shall
    be between six and eleven months of age.

    2. To sell 100% Of his offspring, with the exception that he may
    choose, at his option, to keep his offspring or a certain percentage
    of the offspring, for his herd expansion, in which case selection
    shall be on the basis of one offspring selected by the Producer,
    then one offspring selected by The Group, etc.

    3. To give reasonable care, at all times, to The Central Chinchilla
    Group strain of breeding stock, and to abstain from introducing any
    outside stock. 4. To maintain membership in The Central Chinchilla
    Group and to manage his herd according to recommendations made by
    The Group. 5. That only clean animals in smooth condition and in
    normal good health will be involved under the terms of this
    agreement. 6. That all chinchillas involved shall have been first
    registered at the home office of Central Chinchilla Group, Inc.,
    through birth announcements, and tagged by an authorized
    representative of Central Chinchilla Group, Inc., as animals meeting
    the breeding standards established by Central Chinchilla Group, Inc

Note 2:  The term 'security' as defined under both the Securities Act of
1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 includes 'investment
contracts.' 15 U.S.C. 77b(1) and 78c(a)(10). The definitions in these
statutes are virtually identical. Tcherepnin v. Knight, 389 U.S. 332,
335-336, 88 S. Ct. 548,  19 L. Ed. 2d 564 (1967)

Note 3:  15 U.S.C. 77e, 77l(2), 77q

Note 4:  15 U.S.C. 78j(b)

Note 5:  17 C.F.R. 240.10b-5

Note 6:  See also, Lino v. City Investing Co., 487 F.2d 689, 692-693
(3rd Cir. 1973), where the Third Circuit stated:

> An investment contract can exist where the investor is required to
> perform some duties, as long as they are nominal or limited and would
> have 'little direct effect upon receipt by the participant of the
> benefits promised by the promoters.' * * * As the Ninth Circuit
> realized, to adopt a position similar to City Investing's would lead
> to easy evasion of the act 'by adding a requirement that the buyer
> contribute a modicum of effort.'

Note 7:  The record before the District Court consisted of pleading,
interrogatories, answers to interrogatories, and the affidavit of an
official of the Bank and his testimony at a pretrial hearing. Only the
pleadings, the interrogatories and the answers to the interrogatories
relate to the question before us

Note 8:  See, 51 Tex. L. Rev. 788 (1973) and 6 Creighton L.Rev. 450
(1973), where the elements of the Howey formula are summarized and
investment contract cases are analyzed
